and I had a lot of grief and stuff not
really so much for my loss of him but
the thing that I was the most upset
about is that he was I remember the day
that I got in medical school he just
started crying because I'd been
struggling to get into medical school
for a while and he was kind of worried
it's really cute like that and I hadn't
seen him cry like that I mean he just
like broke down and he said that you're
gonna be amazing
he's like nothing is gonna stop you now
you are amazing yeah you're really good
at what you do you helped me a lot
yeah I've talked to a lot of I've talked
to a lot of psychiatrists and so he saw
that right he saw that like you know
when I mean I had a 2.6 GPA and was
struggling to get into medical school I
never thought I'd be faculty in Harvard
Medical School and and he said like
nothing is gonna be able to stop you and
that you should do good and you should
help people that's really cute yeah and
so what what I was sad about is actually
that he didn't get to see that so eight
months after I got into medical school
he passed away and and so the the thing
that makes me sad like I remember like
the day that that I match that worried
day what would that is see me happy I'm
sorry I want my dad to see me happy
before he does
good Whoopie see me happy now yeah
yeah so um thanks for coming back on man
how are you how's your new year I don't
see you by the way
oh not sharing video okay hold on let's
fix that very windy outside actually
Alexa what's the wind speed 9.2 miles
per hour
I hear that doesn't sound like that's
that's fast but you're crazy okay can
you see me now uh yeah
don't I don't see you know Oh turn on I
have to hit the turn on camera button ok
Boober that's an important button there
we go
by the way uh uh so I don't know if this
is still the case but one of my
developers uh-huh who watches your
stream ah he said he was looking at he
was watching you look at your own chat
and that he it looked like people were
just typing boomer and all caps to you
but they're doing an emoji but you don't
have the extension better twitch TV or
you didn't have it at the time to see
the emoji they're not actually typing
boomer to you in all caps oh I thought
they were typing boomer to me in all
caps is it that a pretty thing because I
see yes I see what's actually happening
is they're doing this a Moute you need
to get
oh it's frankerfacez EW I think maybe I
think somebody just enabled that because
I see lots of like faces man this is
like the black and white boomer yeah but
yeah now you see it okay good now you
want for me they used to type boomer to
you in all caps yeah yeah yeah I thought
that was just what they typed yeah that
would be really I think I mean it's this
lesser I mean I thought it was endearing
yes okay I I sort of feel like I'm I'm
twitches pet boomer yeah twitch loves
watching you try to use technology it's
very funny no it's I feel like a you
know like a three-legged dog that people
are cheering on that's yeah that's funny
so I mean I feel loved you are loved I
we were missing personality like you in
the space because if it's just a bunch
of streamers talking interacting with
each other are they're giving you hearts
in the show when it's just a bunch of
streamers talking interacting with each
other and we're all living in this
bubble uh-huh then uh it's I don't know
the best way to word this but we
definitely get more caught up in all the
negatives that result from being exposed
to large groups of people yeah and
forget to step back and think about it
critically yeah I mean I think there's
certainly a certain degree of myopia
that happens right like so people kind
of get super zoomed in on their life and
their sphere and it's really easy for
toxicity to kind of get built up like
even if you look at spiritual
communities like if you go to a
monastery and stuff like a lot of that
like Mayan is kind of yeah it's a
nearsightedness yeah okay I looked it up
yeah so so it's it's kind of like you
know everyone just kind of sees what's
in front of them and it can get to be I
mean it can just become really toxic and
like even when I went to these ashrams
and stuff in India like a lot of times
there's just a lot of toxicity there and
a lot of ego and wait the wind is so
crazy that's like I couldn't hear you I
think my thing isn't close all the way
okay OCD
okay okay
okay we're gonna yeah so how was your
how was your new year okay
so this whole going into the holidays I
was worried because most years when I'm
going into the holidays it's a lonely
experience and it's a lonely experience
because some lonely experience because
well we never celebrated any holidays
and my family and I have very little
family so I just have my parents and my
brother right so actually like a lot of
pictures of other people having fun with
their family and it always makes me feel
left out so most years I'll go visit and
just we will hang out and to suck like I
don't know we usually just go to dinner
or something but mmm so I don't feel
that as much but I was sick also and
then I kind of I was I've been really
sick and then I needed to stay here I
think I tried to get them to come here
they didn't want to and then but then I
just tried to avoid looking at social
media and seeing all heavy pictures and
stuff like that mm-hmm
and it wasn't it wasn't too bad so it
sounds like you were sick and it wasn't
too bad is how the holidays well yeah
yeah but even if you do go home it
sounds like even if you're with your
family you feel what exactly mmm we're
diving right in by the way unless you
want yeah I see that what do I feel
feels like something's missing yeah
[Music]
huh wait why is everyone doing this face
you guys scared okay for a second yeah I
know I mean I maybe I'll close it
yeah get more immersed because I saw it
in peripheral this sense of community
that people usually get or in family
from the holidays I've I guess I've been
envious of it yeah
and even if we get together it just
feels like our family is really small
and then it's not as a happy experience
as the bigger families who have more
than just their immediate family yeah
well so and how do you feel when you
look at pictures of other people over
the holidays what's the main thing that
the FOMO feeling yes so what what so
let's talk about that for a second right
so fear yeah yeah Oh mo FOMO is like
sure it's fear of missing out but what
is it about those pictures that you're
missing because FOMO can mean different
things to different people for some
people it's like a particular place for
some people it's like Sun which is what
my FOMO is like as I'm in Boston right
for some people it's like there's I just
want to see a lot of smiling faces
around me yeah I guess and you you keep
people on close to you with people I'm
close to yeah so you keep on talking you
use the adjective that you're using has
to do with size I don't know if you can
if you're noticing that what is that I
don't it doesn't seem like size is that
important
yep for family yeah mm-hmm but that's
the words that you're using you see that
you've said small like three or four
times when we talked about your family
and going home for the holidays like my
yeah is small so are you seeing pictures
of like 15 people smiling together
I am but I guess that's not it's
probably just that my brother's missing
yeah from the picture yep
well not me right so like if we think
about when you go home go ahead I was
trying to figure out if I can put you on
the right side of my monitor is there a
way to switch this it's okay keep going
yeah yeah so let's think about that
right so when you go home you feel like
something is missing like the people
that you're seeing are too small like
it's like not in our family right it's
not it's not the full family yeah
because the whole family reckful isn't
the full family it's not the full family
yeah yeah so let's just think about that
for a second right so the reason like
you feel like something is missing
during the holidays is because something
is missing during the holidays sure
yeah um this reminds me I wanted to
share with you because I thought of this
my dad wrote a book he actually wrote
several but in the book he had a
fictional character mm-hmm who was based
on himself I had a different profession
but the same backstory with my brother
who you know his kid who commits suicide
and then he wrote the experience of the
actual experience of what it felt like
for him when my my brother committed
suicide and I wanted to read it to you
sure thought maybe yeah and I when I was
16 I actually edited the book for my dad
so I read it all the way through back
then huh cuz he didn't get an editor I
wasn't very good at editing I could
actually do it much better now while I'm
reading it I would want to change some
words around enough anyway just read it
but yeah sure
so let me pull
okay okay so because
so some of this is fictional I'll give
it a little bit of preface um now I'll
just go right into it I tossed and
turned in bed but couldn't fall asleep
as every night since my personal tragedy
happened in midsummer of that same year
my son had been suffering from a severe
depression for several months and I did
some time fear the worst so when my wife
called me at work on that evening and
said that his room was locked and he
wouldn't respond to calling his name and
knocking on the door death immediately
reared in my mind and my heart
palpitated with a pang I shouted my son
is dead and I started sobbing savagely
and uncontrollably my secretary drove me
home someone climbed to the rear window
of his room and broke it then
immediately screamed to call the
paramedics Leora her name's really judy
judy ran to guys room the secretary
following on the steps Judy came out of
the room crying hysterically her paint
throbbing around me the paramedics came
and she reentered the room with them but
they could only confirm guy's death I
held even more but did not have the
strength of mind to even think about
entering guy's room I ran up and down
back and forth in the house i sat I
stood up against at again lay down on
the floor and twisted in all forms and
directions but I could not escape the
terrible situation I screamed for my son
and hope that he would immediately come
out of the room I saw Judy breaking out
from guy's room dashing past everyone in
the corridor ripping out her hair and
rushing to her bedroom door slamming
behind her and I still twisted around in
frenzy this is not true how do I get out
of this nightmare my mind raged where do
I hide now for eternity at nights I
could not sleep
daydreaming deliriously about my son
conversation and activity with me during
the day I had to face all those annoying
friends and colleagues who honestly with
good intentions were torturing me with
the meaningless words all of them
repeated endlessly as if they had
rehearsed together you have your family
to take care of as well as your police
work
be strong
what's calling me but that one
800-number is worse thing as if I needed
to be told all this we're not for these
cursed obligations I would emulate guys
suicide and be immediately released from
the pain and anyway how could i betray
his memory by tending to things as
meaningless and trivial as personal
achievement status and career the
constant unbearable relentless pain
weighing down on my chest like a hundred
tanks parked on it and the need to
perform work and other daily duties was
now utterly meaningless to watch people
going places coming back talking and
toiling for reasons that now completely
escaped me what is the meaning of all
this hassle and tussle I'm dead and
these people continue their daily
occupations and I have to watch them and
they're utterly stupid ambitions and
activities to get rich to be powerful to
do this and that
what for as life has already ended and
why is it that I'm dead and they're
alive and why is it
they have sons to continue their
existence after they're gone and where's
mine while performing my duties as a
lawyer here at police inspector when
it's lawyer really I would feel sad
enraged empty-headed and exalted
concurrently or alternate are
alternatively why can't I also depart
after guy maybe I will find him
somewhere when I call him back in my
dreams he only signals that it was time
for him to go on with his passage and
not for me I have family duties a city's
population to protect here the same
population who couldn't honestly give a
[ __ ] about guys death anyone understood
the city's treatment of beat
the weeks and months passed black horror
settled in my mind my own darkness
engulfed sucked it suffocated me
inescapable misery constantly bashing my
heart
dashing wounds of unbearable pain
memories of my son melted my brain like
butter and boiling vapor driving me
insane and the worst was the
impossibility the absolute impossibility
to run away and to vanish it disappear
there was nowhere to hide accept it
bless his sleep came to me some nights
after many hours of twisting in my bed
no appetite for food for sex your
achievement whatsoever no ambition to
make even the slightest advance only the
burden in my chest getting heavier every
day and the nagging dread that in time I
will forget Gaia desert him that's why I
continued living his dump like a zombie
horrific not only the loss of my son but
mainly the loss of my old securities of
the confident man I used to think I was
tougher of it I carefully read it take
your time slowly I began realizing that
I was separated from life because my son
was my life and he would never return
I'd lost my connection to the part of
myself that could not we thought my son
satisfied I'm more than that part of
myself which my son had reflected I'm
orange for me this was the unfolding of
the simple realization of why I felt
dead among the living I went to the
kitchen took a sleeping pill sagged back
inside my bedroom and sank into a
welcome dreamless sleep
thanks for sharing Batman yeah
someone has to wrote that my dad wrote
that it's it's $0 on Kindle if you
wanted I'll link it in the check so you
want a second to process and feel like
what are you Oh someone said ad no I
hate that people would think that no I'm
not trying to make you buddy dude anyway
what were you feeling is that is you
were reading that it's hard to explain
cuz uh you I think we talked about you
know there's a split brain experiment
right with the left brain right brain
it's not my analytical side of my brain
it's not the left brain going off it's
the right brain and it doesn't speak
yeah so I just feel I'm just it just
happens
it just go like I just just start crying
I can't control it I don't even think of
thought consciously
so I don't know exactly what I'm feeling
I have to try to figure it out yeah so
tell me what but I'm kind of just yeah
so the first thing is I mean so you've
read that many times before right yeah
does this happen every time you read it
yeah and does this feel let's start with
just wide swaths does this feel good or
bad
well when I was really depressed it it
would feel good because I felt better
feeling something and she's crying then
being completely blank right now it
feels bad cuz I've been happy you've
been unhappy I've been happy actually
okay I've been happy these last few
weeks I've been happy yeah except for
the around the holidays a little bit
yeah and so do you so what I get from
you is a profound sense of sadness and
loss and I Thea the thing that I don't
understand is how much of that loss is
for you how much of that loss is for him
and how much of that loss is for your
dad my dad for sure I don't know I don't
know it's reckful I have a crazy-ass non
sequitur question for you okay
yeah sure do you want to have children
one day
I always thought no scared they kill
themselves
so this is important you're doing good
by the way
Thanks and I was ready to jump into the
water but boy did you take the high dive
yeah I thought I wanted to do I wanted
to do it so there are a lot of different
directions I can go right now but I
think I'm gonna zero on them this one
thing and we can explore the others
later in terms of what you're feeling
and how to process those like that's
there's a part of me that says that we
should talk about helping you through
those feelings but there's another part
of me that says I want to go to the core
of this so when you think about having
children that is a choice between life
and not life living yeah and not living
right and it's the same choice that your
dad makes that's the same choice that he
can't make because he lives as a zombie
amongst a world of regular humans and
he's like dead on the inside and
everyone around him is alive and living
with their petty ambitions and joys and
fears and you just can't engage in that
life he can't and there's a really
dangerous thing because if you move
towards life again that means that
you're leaving guy behind what why do
you say leaving behind I think that's
how your dad feels and if you go back
and kind of read through it there's I
saw that that's how he feels yeah that
part I don't I don't fully comprehend a
part yeah yeah so I I think to a certain
the only way that I think that that
overlaps with you is in sort of the
desire to have children or the lack
thereof because you're saying that like
this is a part of life that I do not
want to engage in yeah right and his
difficulty is is that he like want he
can't engage in life because his son is
dead
yeah
what are you feeling I had a thought
that I thought I'm still here how do you
feel about that no a little bit it was
got to stay hydrated chat you guys feel
like crying you should cry just let it
out man it doesn't do any good staying
in there
we'll talk about why I smile will ask
reckful not a robot
[Music]
long nosed break huh I washed my face -
okay I'm good
can you hear me or you need headphones I
don't I don't know I can hear you
without ya I have it set up where I have
is always on the speakers and also on it
but yeah I was I forgot I didn't have
them on yes I didn't know if I was
talking to no one
yeah
what do you help me understand why you
shared that today I think it's great
that you did it I'm really happy I
thought it would give you a lot of
insight on my past and experiences and
from a perspective of an adult at the
time because I was young and then like
maybe what my childhood might have been
like after that mm-hmm I think it says a
lot and at the same time but that's not
a perspective on your childhood right
that's a perspective on your dad and we
can sort her what things were like yeah
that's what I'm saying yeah but I'm just
I'm a little bit surprised
to be honest that he asked you to edit
that at the age of 16 like that's some
pretty heavy stuff yeah do you remember
what it was like reading it at the age
of 16
no got maybe I shut it out of my mind
I mean I'm sure I felt summer Li mm-hmm
I don't I mean those are the first seven
pages it's like a maybe 200 pages that's
the opening it those that's like page
five or something yeah okay interesting
feels like a climax you know just from a
narrative perspective yeah but and how
do you how are you feeling now what are
you feeling um a little
or something feels nice to have shared
it
feels like I uh feels like I got
something off my chest
yeah what did you get off your chest
you
hmm I wonder
you already know I don't know try to
figure it out yeah something something
so let's think about that so the first
thing is you've read this before right
but when you read it before you don't
let's try to start actually by helping
maybe trying to understand like what is
going instead of sort of defining
specifically what you got off your chest
or how you're feeling better or what is
feeling better let's try to understand
how you're feeling better like what's
going on inside you not from a specific
sense but like what are the mechanics of
okay generation so you've read this
before and it evokes feelings of
negativity usually right and sometimes
when you're feeling depressed it can
feel good because you say it feels you
feel something but I suspect that when
you're depressed and you read that part
of what feels good is resonance it's
kind of like when you when you have a
breakup and you listen to like breakup
songs they hurt but they also feel good
because it's like resonant with the way
that you feel does that make sense
okay so it's possible that it you know
just feeling anything I mean very
possible just the feeling of you're
relating to something yeah so that that
like you're not because if you think
about depression you're kind of alone
and to know that like someone else out
there shares your sense of like abject
hopelessness about the rest of life can
sort of feel good and the fact that it
was your dad yeah and feel good too
right because it's like at least your
dad understands or you understand yeah
and it makes sense it also I listen to a
lot of musicians who shared some of
their thoughts when I was in high school
yeah so we look as human beings we look
for resonance but that's not what's
happening here right so sometimes you
read it and then you feel these negative
emotions but there's no metabolism I get
the sense that you're metabolizing
something so I have a sense what do you
mean by that yeah so that you have this
thing inside you right like this thing
that is
a zombie I think that's a great way to
describe it so for your dad losing a son
Zomba thighs him entirely but in your
case you were just a child and we sort
of saw that there was a piece of you
that was zombified and that like this is
like sure maybe you have bipolar or
whatever I I really have no idea because
I haven't like clinically assessed you
for that nor am i interested in doing
that that's not what the stream is about
but that you have something within you
that like changes the way that you carry
it like you started carrying something
that day and you've carried it with you
your entire life and it's heavy in it's
shitty and there are times where you
take it out of your satchel and you're
like you see it you hold it in your
hands and those are the times that
you're depressed and so what I think me
believe I disagree at the last part okay
only what I'm holding in my hands you
think I'm depressed no no no I don't
think only when you're depressed is when
you're holding it in your hands I don't
think if those are necessarily the same
but okay I think that some of your
depression relates to that or when you
get into that depressive mindset that
your mind gravitates towards those
thoughts or feelings or that those
thoughts and feelings lead to your
depression I think there's some kind of
connection there but it's not it's not
exclusive if that makes sense okay
and so what I so I call this thing to
some scar so some scar is a ball of
undigested emotion that's like kind of
like unprocessed and if we think about
therapy a lot of times the goal in
therapy is to process our experiences
and so not have them with us in kind of
a raw form but to like understand them
and kind of like process them so they no
longer like weigh on us in the same way
and I think something about this very
like public sharing and not necessarily
that it has to be public I mean you
could have read it just to me but I
think there is there is some strength in
sort of like you sharing this and in
bringing this thing within you to light
because it only it really thrives in the
darkness it doesn't thrive in the light
and if we think about experiences of
what do you mean by thrive for this
thing I mean I think it grows and it
sustains itself as long as it's hidden
and that when you share if I if I share
it then it can help it go away yeah so I
think I mean if we think about for
example funerals in the grieving process
the grieving process is semi public and
semi private but for some reason human
beings have evolved in basically every
culture that when loss happens we share
that grief and that somehow has like a
better impact whereas when you have a
loss that's very private and no one else
knows it like digs deeper so I don't
know exactly how that works it's just
sort of like anthropologic principle
yeah I like that analogy
yeah the funeral and and so I mean when
I think about your family I think when
you guys go there the reason that
something's missing is because something
is to be blunt and secondly because I
don't know if you guys ever talk about
it right but there can there can be like
Union and community and strength in all
of you guys sharing your feelings and
like actually acknowledging that you
miss your brother and that he's gone and
that it's shitty that he's gone
and your dad you know God I'm curious we
were gonna say less Lester first and the
last thing is that you know I think that
your dad lost his son but he also lost a
son and I think it's fine for you to not
be able to live for power or promotion
but I think there's plenty to live for
with you and your other brother and
presumably his wife your mom right I'm
not saying that he is not allowed to
feel devastated and destroyed and like
he wants to escape but like let's
remember that because I remember feeling
this way when when I actually so when I
lost my dad
my grandmother kept on wailing about how
she lost her son she lost her son she
lost her son at some point I got pissed
off because I was like you still have
three children that are alive and you
like one of them is your son and and
it's sort of like she never kind of and
it was almost I don't know how much I'm
you know interpreting things but I could
almost see the pain in my uncle's face
that like she don't like she had lost
everything make sense no and and so I
think that there's you know I get that
your dad is feeling grief and devastated
and I can't really know what that's like
and it's easy for me to say you know
there's a way forward but I think
definitely in your case there is and
hopefully in his case there is and
people have lost children before and in
in my grandmother's case like I know
that she can still find joy in the world
with my dad passing away because I'm
alive and my brothers alive and she
likes my kids a lot so she happens to
think that my oldest daughter is my dad
reincarnated I don't know she's a
great-grandmother yep okay so she's old
and and we just saw her over the break
when I was at Houston actually uh-huh
and and so I think that there's still
joy and people in in chat were wondering
why I was smiling when you were like
devastated like what do you feel when I
smile reckful
I assume that when you're smiling
something clicked in your brain a
certain way to treat my situation okay
that is sometimes true but most of my
smile doesn't come from clicking because
that's like analytical and it also
doesn't come from treating I don't smile
because I think I know how to help you I
don't smile because of a particular
thought I smile because I have hope I
have smiled because when I look at you I
smile because when I look at you I see
someone who's starting to like UNH's
Amba fie mm-hmm I smile because I am
starting to exam if I yeah and I smile
because I can see it happening and it's
a beautiful thing
Thanks I smile because I ask you the
question are you gonna have kids one day
and I hope the answer is yes because
you're gonna know a joy that I don't
know that it's gonna outweigh any grief
because I haven't lost a brother yet but
it sure outweighs the grief of losing a
father and that your life can be full
but what you were saying about how your
grandma thought she lost everything when
your father died yeah and that your
uncle was sad I don't feel sad about my
that because if your uncle had died
maybe she would have I assume she would
have also felt like she lost everything
I think she could have lost any son any
or daughter and feel like she lost
everything same with my dad if he had
lost me he would also feel like you lost
everything or if you had lost Gary he
would also feel like I lost everything I
think each of us is everything you know
yeah
but that's why I smile why are you
smiling
yeah because I'm relating to you what
are you relating to loss of a family
member
yeah I'm curious have you ever talked to
your dad about that when he says about
the dream is that you said something
about like when he says he has a dream
where he sees your he sees guy and guy
tells him that it was his time yeah
those those kind of things I not more
interested in now that you mentioned it
but usually I dismiss it all try not to
think things like that but dreams why
not why do you dismiss it not sure I'm
trying to think about it there's a lot
of things I dismiss in my life all the
time and avoid or ignore and I recently
stopped started doing it less I kind of
want to talk about that like I that's a
big reason why you may be feeling better
yeah just just little things are
changing so I'm able to like clean my
room and you know like do laundry and I
don't know put things away and just
things were always very hard for me like
it would weigh on me to do it and I do
it I'm like oh I see the benefit of this
it feels better in here now yeah
[Music]
but uh why did I bring that up I brought
it up for a reason yeah I think it's a
very important so rifles I think what
you're starting to do is become whole
you're starting to become a complete
person and so far in your life you've
lived a life of two-faced in this
because you've got the zombie miss
within you and then you try to live this
life outside of it right like there it's
a struggle between pushing that grief
down and pushing it away and trying to
forget and trying to twist away in a
direction that you can never twist away
and then you try to build this life that
everyone tells you you have to build but
it's not authentic it's not complete
it's like on or off and so life is not
complete or whole and what I see that I
think is actually like what I'm hoping
for and I think I see it is that you're
starting to integrate you're starting to
let these feelings kind of come out and
you're you're accepting them you're
accepting your loss in a way that you
know you kind of didn't have a choice
like I don't know that you've ever
really accepted it and I think you're in
the process of accepting it having a
choice I think would be even harder
because if I feel like if I felt like I
could have saved him that way on me more
no I mean I don't know I didn't know I
felt like I was too young well yeah so I
don't
yes I I mean so you don't have a choice
in losing him but you do have a choice
in letting him go yeah right I don't
know if that makes sense but it and it's
not that letting him go means that you
don't love him and it's not that letting
him go doesn't mean that you miss him
and that you envision a life where
because I mean this is the thing right
every time you look at a Christmas photo
of like the four of you guys and
everyone's smiling there's like one
person missing and that's gonna make I
mean you're you're empathic and you're
gonna look at those smiles and you're
gonna be able to tell that in that
Christmas photo no one is smiling
genuinely and when you look at other
photos and you see those people smiling
you can tell the difference between snow
if their eyes yeah right
genuine fake smile fake smile yeah
what's this it's our it's hard to look
at it that's really yeah and so when you
are home and everyone goes through the
motions it's because there's the thing
there's this like miasma of something
missing before we continue is there
anything wrong with the microphone I can
everything's perfect I haven't checked
yeah usually I check more yeah I think
everything's fine on my own
okay good okay um so where was I going I
was talking about how I can start doing
laundry and things I'm yeah okay so I
was listening you talked to destiny and
you were talking about how everyone has
been asking you about psychedelics and I
was swimming it's cuz I brought it up
and that it's it's a little bit annoying
for you actually that everyone maybe
that everyone's asking about
psychedelics cuz you don't view it as
the way to climb the mountain right it
was an out yeah yeah uh because it just
kind of gets you to the peak of the
mountain right away and you want people
to more slowly learn with meditation and
some other ways to how to calm their
mind something I thought took the condom
on yeah I heard you explaining to him
yeah probably not saying how you said it
exactly but I want to say that I think
that's so Simon saved my life because
since I wouldn't have had the pain
from a state of depression to to believe
that I could be happy and since it got
me to the top of the mountain right away
and I saw happiness and I realized it
was possible then it uh
gave me hope yeah that's why I was
wondering what you think I was wanting
what you think about that I mean I I
think that's great that that happened to
you I think so to be clear I don't want
people to use psychedelics or not use
psychedelics I think so here's so here's
what I think about psychedelics so the
first thing to understand is that
there's a new wave of treatments being
studied in psychiatry psilocybin MDMA
ketamine these are traditionally like
drugs of abuse but they're not like
necessarily euphoric right so ketamine
and psychedelics aren't necessarily like
euphoric MDMA can be done dimma is but
and so we're starting to realize like as
a scientific psychiatric and neuro
scientific community that these have
therapeutic value so I don't dispute
that at all I've had patients of my own
who have had so one of my patients has
had an opiate addiction or just all
kinds of addictions since the age of 13
and he's like around 30 now and he's
comfortable with me sharing this general
stuff on the Internet because he wants
to you know let people know and and so
he's been struggling with all kinds of
treatments has seen like all kinds of
psychiatrists and stuff including myself
and was still struggling and then went
to down to like Costa Rica or something
in a got treatment with ibogaine and it
was like transformative for him and so I
think these ibogaine is like another
it's like an herb that is like sort of
hallucinogenic but ayahuasca sort of but
the other thing that ibogaine does is
reduce the severity of opiate withdrawal
symptoms which can make people feel like
they're dying
so opiate withdrawal is a really really
like painful process but it also has
psychedelic qualities I'm not advocating
first for its use it's not fda-approved
there really aren't many studies around
it or anything like that but I
it's not that I want people to do
something or I don't want people to do
something I think there's clear evidence
that there's value and I think that
there are shortcomings so for example I
went and I hung out on my discord the
other day which is actually really cool
so I didn't realize that our discord had
it now as like thousands of people in it
and yes yeah and so I was like I was
like wow like let me just go hang out
cuz I used to hang out on my discord all
the time when there were like eight
people there in like 2019 but um and and
so I went on there people were talking
in this one guy mentions he says like
yeah I think like the psilocybin is
great because this one guy lost 200
pounds after using psilocybin I thought
that's so cool and he was a friend of
mine oh okay yeah so he so yeah I think
they mentioned something about that and
and so they were kind of talking about
debating like the benefits of like
meditation or psilocybin and if you can
get there with psilocybin and lose 200
pounds and this guy lost 200 pounds from
psilocybin I introduced them to it yeah
so then why why why bother meditating
and I think that's fine too so like I'm
not disputing that people have had
positive experiences in fact the data
suggests that people have positive
experiences with some of these
substances the question is what is the
probability that someone if I take a
hundred people who are overweight and I
give them psilocybin what is the
probability that they'll lose weight
you're asking me yeah I mean I think
that's the question III think because
you're asking this question that it
seems like you have never tried it I've
never tried so incitement
yeah so if you had you would think it's
pretty high no I'm not you step back
yeah yeah maybe you're not saying it
slow yeah yeah as it helps you step back
from your day-to-day perspective and day
to day you might be thinking something
like oh I really want cheesecake or a
Snickers bar but then if you are on cell
Symon
you're looking at your life is a little
more long-term and you're thinking oh if
I don't eat a Snickers bar or cheesecake
right now I'll feel better in the future
and you can really feel it you really
see that that's true and that's why it
helped my friend lose 200 pounds yeah so
I'm not I don't mean that question so I
recognize that often times people who
ask those kinds of questions imply that
the number is low I'm not implying that
the number is low I'm actually I was
thinking you I wasn't necessarily okay
so for example I think the number would
be I mean I have no idea I think the
number would be I don't know okay we
have we need a base I think would be
higher than if you gave them any other
treatment possible so for example like
there's one study on MDMA where they
just took normal healthy people and they
in a controlled substance old
environment they give them it gave them
MDMA and they had therapists like
process whatever they experienced
through the MDMA yeah and then something
like they it was a small sample size so
like 25 people but like 80 or 90% of the
people thought it was one of the most
positive experiences in ever in their
life and I think none of these were at
any history of MDMA excuse so they I
mean use so they kind of like they
ranked it up there with like the birth
of their children and things like that
in terms of like how significant it was
yeah you mind opening I think it helps
you remember how much you love other
people things like that but MDMA you
can't really take that all the time so
yeah be like a once in a while
transformative experience but if you
take it all the time I think it destroys
your serotonin receptors
whereas with mushrooms there haven't
been enough studies but you can take it
way more often and it doesn't have
adverse effects that have yet been
documented right yeah so so I mean my
general take first of all is that we
don't know but there does seem to be
good suggestions of therapeutic and
useful indications I mean I have lots of
friends who have used to Lucinda gins
and stuff like that and really love them
and and swear by the experiences so I
want you to try psilocybin at least once
because then I give you so much
perspective I mean it is getting
fda-approved right then you need to know
what you're dealing with if you're
talking to a patient who's gonna try it
after it's after it's completely legal
for the pressure uh-huh then for you to
really put yourself in their mindset you
would have to have tried it once and I
think if you try it and I it would make
me really happy because then I feel like
I can dive deep with you and relate so
let's just unpack that for a second do
you think you'd be open to that um I'm
open to talking about it okay okay so
let's first start with do you think that
let's start with this you're you're
assuming that you you have a very
important assumption right which is that
if I better if I haven't experienced
myself my ability to help other people
is improved yes so I agree with that
assumption in I agree with that
assumption so part of the reason that
like I work and resonate with gamers as
opposed to people who are addicted to
heroin or alcohol is because I know what
it's like to play video games for like
16 hours a day and have my life go
nowhere whereas I haven't had quite that
experience with alcohol and I think that
those experiences are different so I
agree with that and at the same time
then you've also related to to loss of a
family member and that helped me talk to
you sure but I think the loss of a so my
experience of losing my dad was very
different from you losing your brother
so I would say yeah but yeah I think it
was actually very very different so this
I think is one of the dangers right is
that you assume that my loss was similar
to your loss but I don't think any were
similar at all because I barely grieve
for my dad at all
and it was kind of a weird so I was I
was very sad for a brief period of time
and it was a grief but I kind of watched
my grief in a very detached way and
really wasn't very I mean I was upset
like I felt the sadness and I felt the
loss but I also was bizarrely detached
from it in the same way that you're sort
of describing in psilocybin you're like
oh I don't want to eat a Snickers bar in
your power like the power of that
Snickers bar to alter your life and your
thinking is low and that's how I felt
about my dad's grief that I was grieving
but you know I saw everyone around me
being affected and I just actually felt
a deep sense of peace underneath all of
the grief I felt like a really profound
and it was one of the most positive
transformative experiences for me in
terms of like securing me in my
meditation practice why did you feel a
deep sense of peace but did you feel a
sense of peace because you were able to
deal with it so well I don't think I was
dealing so dealing with it is of the
mind so the thing that the reason that
was so powerful for me is because there
is something that I found within myself
which was calm and neutral and peaceful
which sometimes when you meditate like
if people have been meditating on my
stream and stuff like that and even when
we meditate sometimes you can find some
degree of like this weird like no mind
peaceful place and I thought that that
would be shattered by grief because
generally speaking the more emotional I
became positive or negative the more you
shatter kind of like this peaceful
meditative state does that make sense
maybe not okay no it does because the
use you talked about how the meditative
state is when the mind is often omit
yeah so the really fascinating thing is
I saw that that that thing within me
that felt like blissful and peaceful was
there despite the grief so my whole
understanding of like mind in this thing
being separate I had read about it and I
had experienced it in a lot of different
ways but really crystallized during that
that part of my life when I watched it
when I first saw my dad's corpse and
like I was overwhelmed that like that's
it he's actually gone and you can see
him and I remember like touching his
face and he
was like cold like an ice cube and it's
such a strange experience to like have
someone who you don't even realize like
you touch people all the time especially
your family members and they're always
like warm and soft right like it's kind
of weird like when you shake someone's
hand their hand isn't cold it's like
there's life in there and like when I
touched him I remember thinking like
that life is gone in such a shocking I
mean it sort of hit me there I I saw him
but it was really when I touched him
that I was sort of like it hit me that
this guy is gone and that he will never
be here again and I'll never be able to
talk to him and I had a lot of grief and
stuff not really so much for my loss of
him but the thing that I was the most
upset about is that he was I remember
the day that I got in medical school he
just started crying because I had been
struggling to get into medical school
for a while and he was kind of worried
it's really cute like that and I hadn't
seen him cry like that I mean he just
like broke down and he said that you're
gonna be amazing
he's like nothing is gonna stop you now
you are amazing yeah you're really good
at what you do you helped me a lot yeah
I've talked to a lot of psychiatrist and
he saw that right he saw that like you
know when I mean I had a 2.6 GPA and was
struggling to get into medical school I
never thought I'd be faculty at Harvard
Medical School and and he said like
nothing is gonna be able to stop you and
that you should do good and you should
help people that's really cute yeah
and so what-what I was sad about is
actually that he didn't get to see that
so eight months after I got into medical
school he passed away and and so the
thing that makes me sad like I remember
like the day that that I match Tennessee
be happy I'm sorry I won't my dad to see
me happy before he does good hope you
see me happy now yeah so I come back to
my earlier question reckful is do you
want to have kids
think now if I could stay happy then and
let's say like five years go by and I am
still stable mmm
and yeah I would want to yeah yeah so
I'm not you know pressuring you to have
children but I think it's it captures a
lot of I think if you decide that that's
the right thing for you and you have
children one day I think a lot of the
things that we're talking about in terms
of your dad being able to see you truly
happy you know it's gonna bring up a lot
of sense of sorrow and loss but there's
gonna be like the other side of the coin
and and you you know the goal here is to
live like an integrated life where you
have sorrow and pain and suffering and
you also have not just endurance because
most people just tank their way through
it right but that you have like you have
joy and and accomplishment and that all
of these things like life is about all
of those things and the more that you
bring all of those things together the
more complete your life will be and the
goal of life is not to not the avoidance
of pain and suffering right because
that's what we gravitate towards we want
an easy job we want more money we want
more comfort we want people to love us
we want to be like respected and loved
and all this kind of stuff but you want
the whole spectrum the shitty and the
gun yeah I feel that because like I was
saying before well yeah the days that
it's hard for me to put it to words but
the days where I'm crying about
something make life feel meaningful for
sure what I really want from life I want
to feel a wonderful connection with
people i working on Neverland it's been
making me feel like I'm with
together to accomplish a goal that feels
amazing and I don't you don't get that
as much from streaming cuz streaming is
more of a solo job for most people and
it's isolating whereas the game
developments a wholesome and happy I
love it so that's why I've tried to
transition a little bit yeah still like
streaming once in a while though because
sharing emotion feels great yeah and and
so like this is the thing that really
blows my mind it's like we've always
thought that I mean this isn't therapy
but that generally speaking the this the
sharing of emotions and like airing you
know our deepest darkest feel feelings
and thoughts and stuff should be done in
private like what the [ __ ] man doing in
a public that's really yeah it's the
worst to just keep it private yeah I
think so I think in in my mind like this
stuff grows and this is kind of what I
was saying and and you would express
some confusion because I don't think I
was being clear but that like these
things like our negative feelings when
they exist within us and we don't show
them to the world they actually compound
and there's a really interesting example
of this that two sides one is that if
you think about trauma so when I work
with people who have a history of trauma
and they like you know if they've been
like abused as children and the abuse is
ongoing its private and it kind of like
lives inside them and no one ever sees
it and it just eats them alive in the
longer time that goes on and the more
they keep it within them like the worse
and worse it gets even if the trauma
stops at some point as long as that
thing is within them it just grows it's
like a cancer the other really
interesting thing is if you look at the
spiritual practice of mantra or mantra I
think that actually operates under the
same principles so a month or is
something that is chanted in secret so
you're given a month row by a guru and
then you chant it you don't tell anyone
what it is in my experience of mantra
has been like the more private that I
keep it like the more it sort of grows
within me and it's kind of like it
doesn't I don't let it out the only
difference is that it's positive instead
of negative which is kind of like really
interesting but I think that
just this general principle about human
beings in psychology that like what is
within us like we don't let it out it
kind of compounds yeah and I think that
there's a big difference between even
though the emotions that you feel when
you read that thing because I think I
mean you knew what you were getting into
but something within you gravitate it
like you just pulled that out right like
you were like you're like I mean I'm
sure you've thought about it but like no
one else at least I mean I had no
inkling I don't know if you told me you
know it's kind of like I didn't tell you
yeah so like no I knew I wanted to share
it yeah so like you shared it and then
you there's some part of you that knows
it's kind of like you know if you give a
a 1 year old like a glass of water and
they're thirsty they're gonna drink it
there's some part of you that is hungry
for licious and to share yeah and to not
have it be like stuck within you because
it's been stuck within you for a long
time yeah it really is and so I think
this is different this reading is
different this reading has the sense of
metabolism to me that you're turning it
from one thing into another thing
turning it from one thing into another
thing so I'm trying to turn this ball of
grief and loss into into what I mean I
don't I don't think that it stops being
grief or loss to be clear it's just it
becomes like a positive grief or loss
like I don't know how else to put it so
when I think about you know the work
that I do like I was directionless and
purposelessness purposely did not
purpose and in that direction and we do
we do need to think of a way to wear
this because it's it makes sense to
share the grief it becomes a positive
thing that we don't know where it right
yeah so I mean I I can tell you kind of
what I I don't know specifically about
grief but I think like what happens is
the negative parts of us and this is so
what I've come to realize is the things
that we view is negative become a part
of who we are and that allows us to be
the person that we need to be and the
person that we need to be is what doing
your Dharma is tautomerize duty or
responsibility I could not do my Dharma
unless I was the summation of all of my
experiences up until this point right so
I don't think now I feel like part of my
duty is to help other depressed people
who have been in my experience
absolutely right so yeah and it wouldn't
it wouldn't have happened yes this is
what's important about Dharma it's not
about pain it's not about comfort it's
about like when the first time we talked
reckful my life was a summation of
experiences where I needed to be
something for you and I could not be
that thing for you unless I take in my
negative experiences and turn them into
something that you could relate to or
that I could relate to within you that I
you know I took the person that I am
including all of the good and all of the
bad and that's what allows me to be the
person that I am because I do understand
her and I do understand loss and I do
understand directionless and in your
case grief and loss you know seem like
negative things and they absolutely are
negative things but they're also not
negative things they're just a thing and
whether it's negative or positive is a
value judgment that the mind places upon
it which you should understand since
you've done psilocybin that negative and
positive is not real it's what we
attribute to it and that a thing is just
to think somebody just gifted as
bazillion subs on my stream I don't even
know Charlotte ninety-three thank you
for that by the way yeah people people
supporting uh dr. K and content like
this I think it is very important and
since dr. K has decided to yeah you sent
a lot of your colleagues we're doubting
that this would be a good idea for you
to go online and do this and I'm really
happy you did it because you're a AoE
healing instead of single target yes
they still don't know yeah they'll find
out yes that'd be ridiculous
but I right before that right before I
said that I had something to tell you
what were you just talking about well so
early are you asking me about psilocybin
and then we kind of got off on on the
tangent of grief and loss in parma
purpose like understanding that things
are just before just before someone
gifted about you so that there is no
difference between positive and negative
that like those are valid only apply
yeah this gets a little difficult for me
because we can start you can you could
say that about more and more things in
life that there's no such thing as this
right there's no such thing as the
United States we made it up right there
borders we made up in her head right and
we just wrote it down that it exists or
there's no such thing as money it's just
numbers that we write down that exist
because we wrote him down and companies
no such thing right I mean sort of right
yeah we could say there's no such thing
you can keep saying there's no such
thing about a lot of things but these
things are inter subjective things that
do they exist for us but objectively
they don't exist no so what I'm talking
about so I'm not talking about right
right I know I know I know it's a little
different you're saying there's no such
thing as a positive or negative
experience it's at what we attribute to
it so and somebody else sorry it
people are just gifting just gigantic
amounts of subs so thanks low DPM thank
you
like people are gifting with fifty or
hundred subs so that isn't say thank you
guys so though such things a positive or
negative experience so reckful yeah yeah
I'm trying to think it through I have to
critically think about it don't think
don't think close your eyes
sit up straight now before we do this
okay notice keeps reading anyway I can't
blow my nose but I'm also sick I'm sick
don't worry about it next time go to
next go I want to do it I want to do
this bridge I just we won't do breathing
that no I want to do it I love it was
good but I just keep my feel bad I keep
going I hear but you'll have things to
talk about with them well I've got I'll
get a drink I'll think so by the Solow
DPM dude you have gifted like gigantic
amounts of subs several times so I'm
very grateful for your support and also
let me I don't know how to delicately
ask this but do you need help because
like something tells me that if
something is resonating with you and
this deeply and you need help just let
me know right so I'm not trying to say
that I don't appreciate your support but
like there's a part of me that just
wanders a little bit about
you know what like is it just that
you're just a super positive supportive
person who wants to see the world become
a better place like I can completely
understand that 90% of the chance is
that that's what's going on but there's
a small part of me that sometimes says
that the people who go out of their ways
to help others are the ones who have
felt hurt really bad
right so if I think about like people
who do like trauma support and things
like that there are people who have
experienced trauma before and and so
there's a part of me that actually like
feels some strange sense of compassion
like I'm very grateful for all the
support you're providing and stuff like
that but at the same time like I just
wonder you know because a lot of times
pain and suffering can turn into
something really positive I mean that's
exactly what we're talking about but if
you do need help you know let me know
and it's okay to need help and thank you
so yeah I'm talking I'm talking to
reckless chair yeah so I think we did we
did what we did we did the hype train
and now we're getting lots of subs
okay so diagnose the chair so in order
to diagnose this chair we must use this
accent or should we do the Indian one we
can talk about it okay so the chair has
is an Everland chair do you see that he
has it he sees the video game yes to
surround himself this is the video game
and we will do the meditation well now I
feel like I felt inspired to do
meditation but now reckful is gonna come
back and I don't know what to do now I'm
uninspired
[Music]
because I feel like sometimes I get
inspired to like teach meditation but
now it's like the rhythm is broken I
know right we talked about this last
time it's like he spends a lot of time
in the bathroom blowing his nose he was
washing his face last time so I mean
he's probably just peeing also I think
part of the reason that reckful could be
feeling better is because he has
sunlight now do you guys remember the
dungeon that used to stream from before
it was like dark and now there's like
light which is amazing do you guys feel
depressed you should get your vitamin D
checked go talk to your primary care
physician about that very common
especially in northeastern climate like
northern climates also if you're
dark-skinned so if you're like have dark
skin like your Indian or Hispanic or
Latino or African or african-american or
whatever or Southeast Asian Filipino and
you live in like the northern hemisphere
you have to be careful because our
bodies are very inefficient at producing
vitamin D because we lived in climates
where there was a lot of sun exposure so
if you live in a climate where there's a
whole lot of light chances are you're
more vitamin D deficient than your
Caucasian friends so if you're like
Scandinavian like Scandinavian people
have like a very good vitamin D
production because they just don't get a
whole lot of light whereas like people
who are brown like myself have very poor
vitamin D per production so get it
checked
you
so someone is up dojo blue thanks for
the subs I guess while we're waiting for
reckful I'm just gonna thank people for
subs Andy Milonakis
thanks for the subs bro
Andy
where I'm confused
who's Andy Milonakis it sounds are they
just saying that because your name is
Andy or you like the Andy from like
Harvard Andy and CEO Andy is that the
Andy that all Andy's are so you're here
at the Andy Andy yeah that's what I'm
wondering like anyway you seem to be a
famous person so thank you for your
support and I mean I don't know like you
guys tell me that someone is someone
Andy so I just assumed and then people
are going nuts so so welcome to the
stream my dude and you're the Andy Andy
I mean what are you best what are we
doing but I just spilled orange juice on
my carpet so once okay how does one go
to blow their nose and spill orange
juice on the carpet like can we just I
was gonna get a drink after blowing my
nose
okay
oh [ __ ] sorry it's just cuz I wanted to
read chat and anyway I was gonna like
get all ready to meditate but now I just
I I feel like my rhythm is broken we can
go we can finish our conversation about
psilocybin then maybe we can meditate
yeah I think we're talking 2ls soon okay
okay umm sorry but I I was gonna
meditate in a particular way but I
forgot what that was cuz I just got
thrown off base I was thinking maybe we
could just finish our conversation about
so psilocybin and that way before I've
been doing that breathing exercise you
told me this is up yeah good how do you
like it I'm not sure I'm doing exactly
correctly okay so can you do it one time
yeah sure so show me what you're doing
actually let's let's start there you
should stop at like 33
you
good yeah so are you contracting your
stomach are you abdominal breathing
because I see a lot of chest movement so
so when you breathe in Tibet yes sir I
mean like not like bad but like Bali
breathe so you want abdominal so you
want abdominal contraction more than
chest how do I do that so this is what I
want you to do sit up straight and I
want you to as you breathe in push your
belly out as far as it'll go
okay sit up straight as I breathe in
push my belly out as far as it will go
okay here we go
wait I said breathe in push my belly up
yeah you feel that you can expand it
just pull
yeah that's right good so so okay try
less hard just in a more relaxed manner
so just as you breathe in just your your
navel is going out your bellybutton is
moving out right so imagine that your
bellybutton is pulling out and you're
sucking the air in through a vacuum does
that work better
yeah well he's worried I'm getting
tricked into thinking I'm doing it but I
could stick my belly out or whatever you
know so like like you know imagine
you're letting your paunch hang out and
you're just taking like a nice big
breath like you've just eaten you know
like some good Texas barbecue you just
went to the Salt Lick and then you're
like if I stand up can we know if I'm
doing it better yeah you have to turn to
the side though
okay sure okay so I'm gonna turn to the
side okay yeah
can't see my face does it matter no no
we don't see your face we need to see
her okay here we go
good okay so here's the okay so okay and
when you breathe out close your eyes
don't look close your eyes imagine
you're pulling your belly button towards
your spine as you breathe out and you're
expelling all of the air out of your
chest I'm pulling my belly button
towards my spine okay does that make
sense or is the imagery confuse does it
make sense it's not like I have a [ __ ]
it's not like I have a solid frame of
understanding of what you're saying but
I could kind of try and yeah yeah I'm
just I'm just saying so breathe in and
out and let your belly move in when you
breathe in let me start belly move out
you okay oh someone has a good
suggestion lay on the floor you put a
book on your stomach
that's a great suggestion all right
is it bad if I don't own a book just put
put something on your stomach something
that we can see yeah that great that's
okay
just lay down good we can see you good
good and out there we go let him let him
all the way down all the way down all
the way down there we go this has gotta
be hilarious for people who are just
trying to don't like what the [ __ ] is
going on okay we're gonna kill right
okay no breathing no breathing reckful
that's enough so this is a horrible
attempt at meditation is what this is
okay that's okay just bring the chair
back you shouldn't you shouldn't do
breathing meditations when you're sick
dude it's not good yeah it's okay okay
also people are like super super
confused about what's happening which is
great sure what were you talking okay so
we're talking about getting you to try
psilocybin yes so let's just so let's
take a step back the reason that I was
asking you to do this so we can we can
we're gonna or both of your nostrils
equally clogged the right ones a little
more clogged okay so we're gonna do that
same left gang right gang thing that we
did last time yeah at the end but we'll
talk about psilocybin and the point that
I was going to make with meditation is
that when you meditate you experience
the sensation the sensation is not good
or bad
right like so life is just experiences
and we tend to I mean my argument falls
short even in my own head whenever I
think we tend to pick one experiences as
good or bad yeah so I would I would
associate it with good the meditation
experience because it's calming and I
think it releases endorphins maybe it
seems like it does you you it's
something something feels like it's
tingling in my brain after I meditate it
feels really yes so I mean this is an
association work we're deciding that
it's good no no but I think the reason
it's good is because we sit with an
experience without associations that's
what feels good like we what we feel
what feels good is when our mind is not
associating or placing value judgments
on things
monka hmm right and and so when we
meditate it actually we're just sitting
with an experience fully and that's why
I'm like mindful eating or like mindful
like instagramming or mindfully like
watching the sunset is so great because
like the more that you just do something
without like your mind a tributing a
value judgment to it so my favorite
exercises that I ask my patients to step
in dog [ __ ] so we work our way up to you
really
yeah barefoot so what we do is like I
like that because because the thing is
like if you think about the experience
of stepping and dog [ __ ] is not bad
right like the actual sensation of
stepping in dog [ __ ] is not bad yeah
actually it's probably kind of smushy in
a nice way
it's just like it's just like if you
stick your toe in the mud but stepping
in dog [ __ ] is but yeah but the
experience is different from the value
that we apply to it so you don't they're
like safety concerns too because if
we've got a caught on your foot or
something you could get infected but my
point is that like the that we apply a
lot of attributes to the experiences
that we have yeah and in my experience
my experience has been that the more you
can sit with an experience purely the
less bad it becomes and that's sitting
with an experience purely is sort of a
relatively like enjoyable blissful State
and when you decide I'm saying that
sitting with an aren't you saying that
the experience of sitting with an expiry
without thinking about whether it's good
or bad is a good experience yes yes
that's exactly what I'm saying
and I would argue that when you think
about the way that you describe so for
example I just got a $100 donation so
thank you all tomorrow and and so I
think that that's a good thing but if I
were fully tranquil that would be no
different than getting a $1 donation
total my dad said you broke my brain
reckful broke I think that's what he
meant ready yeah so that he broke my
brain I mean if you just think about it
like even-even and you can try this that
you can take experiences that you
normally so my the example that I use is
like also I take like this very bitter
like Indian herb so I don't know if you
guys have ever heard of neem yeah but
neem is is a particular plant and it's
like super super bitter you just eat a
neem leaf it's an awful experience until
you do it fully mindfully and then if
you do it fully mindfully like it's
actually not that bad it's just super
it's like the most bitter thing you've
ever tasted but bitterness in and of
itself is not necessarily bad right okay
so on psilocybin you'll do everything
you could do everything very mindfully
and you'll just taste something to be
like oh actually why why is it that I
never enjoy this exactly you'll you'll
drink you'll drink it and you'll think
oh yeah yeah exactly exactly so you so I
think psilocybin creates separation
between the mind and the self yes right
and and so that people find to be
peaceful and blissful and enlightening
so like not only do you gain more
knowledge but you gain peace and you
gain some degree of enjoyment mm-hmm and
and so that's also like I've always
thought it's weird that like moksha
which is the word for enlightenment like
gets translated as different things it
gets a little translated as bliss it
gets translated as liberation or freedom
and it gets translated as enlightenment
and so one is like huh Nirvana is
Nirvana moksha same thing yeah it's also
a Nirvana right yeah
yeah and so it's just weird that like
one word has like you know if you think
about it like freedom and happiness or
like two different dimensions of things
right it's not like the same category
but in this state of mind if you've done
psilocybin like you kind of know what I
mean that like there's sort of bliss and
there's like you know more things and
you feel better and knowing and feeling
can kind of like there's a state of mind
where knowing and feeling can like Co it
like peace and knowledge sort of come
hand-in-hand which is not usually how we
think about peace and knowledge I know
what you're talking about yeah yeah so
as to my personal take on on meditation
versus psilocybin so I think that
psilocybin
is has less research to support it so
generally speaking when people meditate
regularly for a long period of time it
does a lot of things to your brain yeah
and I think that those things are
probably more reliable based on my
experience of hearing people talk about
psilocybin then then yeah but you need
to have the experience too okay so I
think it's probably very similar I don't
know I agree with you though there's
thousands of years of people have been
meditating for thousands of years so and
passing down the knowledge right so I'll
give you so I'll give you a prime
example of why I think meditation is
probably better than psilocybin so the
state is the same so I think once you
achieve is the same is the same or
arguably people say that in meditation
you can get two states higher than
psilocybin although you know unclear
what that means but the one thing that
you don't get from psilocybin is a
practice at concentration and the focus
of your mind so I don't think that's so
that's not true
I got to stop you there okay you do get
practice in concentration and focus of
your mind because house has you stepping
back and realizing all the time that you
aren't being mindful constantly you're
just like you're it makes you present no
so I get the making you present okay god
you're getting I need you to try it I
need you to try it that's why yeah
you'll do it okay so we can go to
twitchcon is in Amsterdam and we could
you could borrow the car saying I'm
gonna do psilocybin I'm saying
okay please stay we can we can legally
purchase it it's truffles
over-the-counter and Amsterdam okay we
could we can in a twitchcon and I'll
hang out with you we'll talk
it'll be great we could stream I don't
know if I can stream it off to a switch
if they think it's okay but that'd be
cool so some people are saying this
can't be real
tell me more about tell me more about
why you think that you train your
concentration through psilocybin okay um
so okay so after I take so Simon here's
my experience I will wake up feeling
I'll wake up feeling a bit empty every
day a little bit I wake up with low not
not too much motivation and all those
trying to really put myself there I
guess I have time to think about it okay
and I'll take it and then after it hits
I take it every single day so I'm on it
right now
always on it it's not a big dose it's
not I don't get high I take a 1 gram
which people get high on like 3.5
usually and I probably built the
tolerance um once I'm on it then I'm
able to do the tasks that I usually
would find impossible to do I wasn't
always able to do them it also took me
changing my mindset so now I'm able to
clean or do laundry or organize my room
or plan ahead in ways that were hard for
me before ok and just just like I told
you my friend Greek took psilocybin and
decided to lose 200 pound or decided you
want to lose weight and lost hundred
pounds or you heard that elsewhere I
didn't even tell you then I'm able to
think oh if I do this if I clean my if I
organize my room it will everything will
just feel better in the future I'm not
thinking moment to moment I'm able to
zoom out and also yeah and I think yeah
I'm able to also think I'm also hired
I'm not I'm not quite getting it the
explanation there I can't do it so it's
really hard to explain yeah go ahead
so so let me let me try to tell you what
I'm hearing and how I'm interpreting
that which could be wrong because I have
a tried solicitor so I think what you're
talking about is the after-effects of
something called Samadhi
so Samadhi is a state of temporary
enlightenment and when people have
Samadhi they change and their outlook
changes which means their behavior
changes and what they can accomplish
changes it's like a moment of
realization that changes the way that
you move through the world so like with
my patient who was on ibogaine they had
an experience where they saw like the
addiction within them is like this
serpent that was like coiling around
inside them and like eating different
parts of them and like they took that
serpent out and they like they like shed
it and it wriggled and it fell off of
them and then they formed like felt like
and then like there
it changed the way that they interacted
with substances in the future from that
single moment in time is that what
you're describing like their behaviors
change and they're the product of their
mind in terms of what it decides to do
and doesn't do changes from this
singular experience there's so much more
to it than that okay could be because
that singular experience gives hope the
singular experience makes you realize
you can be happy because when you're sad
you think it's impossible you can't see
a reality where you would be happy I
would feel doesn't matter what I do I've
tried traveling I've tried streaming
I've had a lot of fans you know I've got
a lot of money I've I've tried to live
in a nice place and no matter what I do
it doesn't feel good I can't feel
happiness I've had a girlfriend who I
really felt close to and loved and we
were traveling together in Japan which
is my favorite place to be and I still
wasn't happy and now if I take
psilocybin all those same experiences
become meaningful and I feel like I'm a
full whole human being I feel like there
was something missing in my my brain and
it connects it and it makes it work and
it makes me feel these feelings that
other people must be experiencing okay
so that's very useful to hear I think
that that's a broader conversation so
that concerns me because in order to
engage in life it sounds like you need
psilocybin so that just bothers me right
so my hope is that there is a way for
you to engage in life without psilocybin
to have those fulfilling experiences
without it right that would be great
that's a value judgment that I place but
let me just would be great but I don't
mind then some people are like oh I want
to feel reliant on any substance or
something yeah so but I mean I'm also
reliant on eating food every day I will
die if I don't do that so eating one
extra food every day a mushroom
I don't yes I don't want to go down that
road right now what I want to focus on
is what I was saying about training your
concentration so this is something that
I'm not sure that psilocybin doesn't
making fun of my logic that logic
doesn't work
come no let's forget about forget about
the logic please everyone's calling me a
drug addict can we address that dog that
they're all calling me a drug addict I
feel like it should be addressed I mean
we can I think it's gonna take more time
and energy than I have the inclination
for right now okay um do you think I'm a
drug addict what does that mean what do
you mean by the word addict that I'm
doing something over and over that will
have an effect on me long-term I think
what you're doing is not healthy I'll
put it that way okay so I don't know
what effects so like scientifically we
don't know know what the chronic effects
of psilocybin use are right we just
don't know and we all have different it
my legend you don't think it's not
healthy you don't know because they
don't know yeah so I think what you're
doing is not healthy I don't know if
what you're doing will have oh there's
difficulty no no no but you don't know
if it's not exactly so I think what
you're doing is unhealthy for a whole
host of reasons but that doesn't
necessarily have to do with you being
dependent on a substance because
generally speaking psilocybin is not a
substance that you form a physiologic
dependence to right so like when we
think about addiction we think about
someone whose determinant developed a
physiologic tolerance to a substance so
I'm addicted to caffeine because if I
don't have caffeine I have withdrawal
right drink caffeine I don't drink
alcohol so the other problem with this
this conversation the reason that I'm
hesitant to engage in it is because it's
not about logic right there there's way
more here than logic there's there's
values there's judgments
there's perception yeah there's sense
I'd like to explore all those but for
all of those yeah
next week because that's a long
conversation what I want is zeroing on
just because and maybe no one else gives
a [ __ ] about this but I feel like it's
important because you have people ask
questions about the difference between
meditation in psilocybin okay so the
meditation offers lots of benefits and
it's not just the state of Samadhi so
the state of Samadhi is I think what
psilocybin gives you which is sort of
like a state of self outside of the mind
which gives you a sense of peace and
realization fine arguably meditation
leads to other kinds of benefits right
so they're like spiritual powers which
people claim that you can gain through
meditation I won't comment on those
today although people are super
interested about that we can have a we
can talk about that I don't know if
psilocybin lets you do those things the
the thing that I will be very concrete
about is that there is a particular
practice of meditation the first stage
of meditation is dhaarana which is not
actually a state of mind it's a practice
so when I sit down and I say focus on
your breath and my mind starts to wander
and I train my mind to come back to the
breath and it wanders again and I
trained it to come back and it wanders
again and I train it to come back every
time my mind wanders it's like doing a
mental pushup to focus my attention back
on the thing you're getting better at
focusing your attention I agree and it's
so it's like basically like going to the
gym for your mind because you're going
through a particular redirection of
attention time and time and time again
and what that means is that when I
intend my mind to go in a particular
direction I get better at training the
mind to follow my commands yes so I was
arguing that I do the same thing on
psilocybin because I start my day and
I'll train my mind - okay here's
allocate my time in a certain way I need
to here I need to work on Everland for
two hours right now I need I've never
been able to like you know schedule
things or because because I started
doing it I'm able to schedule things all
the time so I mean I can have every
system because here's the not on
psilocybin are you still better at that
stuff
yes it's lat having some lasting effects
when I'm not on it
so I am still a little better but no I
don't I can't like clean my room or
organize things or stick be a super
punctual but when I'm on it I can be
really punctual yes for this meeting
then we were you were right yeah you
were absolutely yeah and so I think that
that's so that I don't know I mean cuz
it's kind of like you're saying like I
can function on caffeine right but I
can't function so more it's a very
similar effect of caffeine actually yeah
so but that implies to me so that's not
how meditation works though because
meditation like no but right so it's
giving me the caffeine feeling of I can
function but it's also giving me the
perspective feeling the step back
feeling that I can direct my attention
feeling maybe you can also direct your
attention on caffeine better yeah
probably
let me put it this way there is some you
don't think I'm doing the mental
push-ups
I don't push ups that's IIIi I'm trying
to figure out if I am yes yeah so I do I
want you to try it maybe you'll know I
don't know yeah and if you're doing the
mental push-ups that'll help advance
people's knowledge of the connection or
the similarities between suicide and
meditation just by you trying it once I
can figure it out
yeah so we also need to have a
conversation of why it's so important
for you that I try psilocybin right so
like what does that mean to you because
like I'm getting these a lot I can see
that right so yeah yeah yeah and why
it's so important to you and I because I
want I want to know if I'm going on the
correct life path by trying this
everyday
basically yeah right now you're in a
disagreement that I am okay and then the
the FDA approval is leaning towards
maybe this will be a yeah right but you
think I'm doing something on a healthy I
want base I think if you try it but
didn't we just have a notion about how
things like make us the people that we
are and that things that may be
perceived as negative yes we did so I
think that you're on the wrong path you
asked me a question and I'm not talking
to you about psilocybin I want to know
yeah I want to know I wanted you're the
one who's asking me do you do I think
it's unhealthy you're the one who wants
me to try it's alright I value your
opinion I value your opinion so much on
this topic and the only way I can really
get your opinion is if you try okay so I
think we should have two conversations
now one is about why it's so important
to you that I tried psilocybin and the
second what's we're having or no in the
second is you know this whole issue of
whether you're an addict or not and if
you want to talk about that those may be
related okay
but anyway I think yeah I mean I think
those are both full conversations I'm
more than happy to have I'm I'm thrilled
that you're very interested in it and
I'd love to have those conversations and
it sounds like we've got more stuff to
talk about I just kind of have to wrap
up in a little bit and I was gonna see
how that makes sense yeah it's been
through hours people want to have
questions do you do people have
questions let me just look real quick
let's uh let's answer to a question
everything yeah I can look at some
questions too anyone have any questions
I'll read them in here fastest four
hours of your life yeah sorry okay guys
can you
be fun of me for trying to get a
psychiatrist to take drugs please I'm
sorry I don't I'm not offended and I
don't think it's an appropriate thing if
people want to make fun like you know
twitch chat is twitch chats they're
gonna make fun of what they want to make
fun of I know it's kind of funny it's
pretty funny
I think it's actually a really important
conversation but I do think twitch chat
is picking up on something that there's
almost there's a very amused this word
but it feels right there's some
desperation within you for me to try
psilocybin like that's what it feels
like
like I feel yes because as soon as you
do I I and I don't want to be too pushy
which I being them too pushy for sure
but I know that as soon as you try it
you'll be able to tell me if I am doing
these mental push-ups if you tell me I
am doing the mental push-ups I'll feel
better every single day so here's the
problem that I like this in in two
seconds reckful you need to stop living
your life based on my validation you
have to decide for yourself right that's
the fundamental problem so I've already
decided for myself I want to do it I
don't think you have then then the
reason I'm here outside for other
opinion because you see addict to do the
same thing I'm doing
I'd like some actual heroin addict would
do what I'm doing and decide for himself
exactly so there's a part of your
opinion there is a part of you that has
doubt and you were looking for me to
settle that doubt I'm not gonna play
that yes
no I didn't present this right so it
doesn't mean that we can't talk about it
again but my initial reaction is that
you're looking for a green light from me
which the problem with that is not
whether I give you a green light or the
red light the problem that I have with
that is that like reckful you need to
stop looking to me for green lights this
is a decision like you have to come to
on your own huh I kind of like looking
at you for green I know and I'm gonna
give you the green lights that I'm ready
to give you but for the rest of it let's
talk about it later
let's do Q&A okay dodj sure Q&A I'm
gonna stealth and disappear
I'm getting him to try it by the way
you'll see which gun so I have a few
questions here that I can ask so
[Music]
let me just see if these are for
I really think some don't don't worry
about it reckful seriously I think you
so I think twitch chat is on to
something and we're gonna explore that
in our next interview because next week
yeah I think we should talk about it but
it's not I don't think we do Sundays
from now on yeah we can let me try can
we do can we talk about that do Sunday's
yeah if you can't do Sunday's I'll do
Friday's it's no I I think I should be
able to do something okay it's just
gonna have to be not this time right oh
wait do you guys like Friday's shot you
guys really like Friday's I guess that's
a good QA what day do you guys like the
best for this oh they love Fridays okay
well do Fridays if he's what Friday
later in the day work better for you
know this was great timing okay so some
what we kind of talked about this a
little bit how are you not crying after
reckful read that so people are
wondering if I'm because they were
noticing I was smiling and I was
sadistic here yeah so reckful I'll kind
of ask again I know we kind of talked
about it but what are you person like
how does it feel to you when I smile you
know what we're talking like how does
that feel to you well the way I answer
it last time was I thought that when
you're smiling it means that something
clicked in your brain that you realized
you're gonna be able to help me but you
said that what you when you were smiling
you feel hope for me yeah did I see a
lecture you feel hope for me do you
let's hope for me now nothing I'm a drug
addict I think it's all it's all part of
it so reckful it's all part of your road
man it's all part of your yeah right
okay I mean it's it you know I I do my
best not to judge and like this whole
like addict or not I yeah so I think
sometimes I do like click right so
sometimes it's kind of an intellectual
like it's like right before I like it's
like AG Adam like it's right before yeah
and so sometimes it is that sort of like
intellectual things clicking into place
but a lot of times it's just hope and
it's kind of bizarre cuz like I
sometimes I used to get bothered by it
when like people would come into my
office and they'd like start crying and
stuff and I'd be sitting there grinning
like an idiot and then I've asked them
how does it feel to you that I'm
grinning like an idiot while you're
crying and they're like it actually
feels really good okay and so their sake
I could see it could be interpreted the
wrong way but most people who know you
would not interpret throw away yeah so I
have a question for you that you can ask
your your uh your base and your own time
as well I uh so I was gonna surprise you
but I think it's actually better if you
end up telling me and talking about it
I'm gonna put you in Everland
okay you're gonna be in the game cool
and you can have your own building or
you could be meditating on a mountain I
whatever you prefer and if you have a
building what would it be what would you
want it to be and you could talk you
could talk to your chat about it and
they can help you decide in another time
okay so I feel like I already have an
answer for you
okay what is it and it's and if this is
a cop-out I'm gonna ask chat because I
feel like I don't think this is a
cop-out but I think I think it should be
whatever you think it should be I won't
okay I want that I want you to build it
so like whatever you whatever inspired
me to put you into the game like put me
into the game in the image that you feel
is appropriate okay great I got it okay
yeah great thank you nice so I have a
question here is it okay to meditate
after smoking weed
so marijuana I think is a whole
different ballgame so marijuana I'm not
a big fan of I'm not either
I marijuana also has a lot of good
treatment uses so for example like the
best evidence for marijuana I have some
legend coma right
not just glaucoma so like the most
important clinical benefit that I've
seen from marijuana is people who have
opiate addiction and start using
marijuana reduce their dependency on
opiates okay and so like from a public
health standpoint like people are dying
like I said they think 76 people every
hour died from opiate overdose or 176 or
something like that and so any any
substance that causes people to use less
opiates I think there's there's room for
I have some patients that have
depression and use marijuana from time
to time it's kind of funny because they
like they you know they come here and we
do like meditation and all that kind of
stuff and then one day like months after
we've worked together like by the way I
smoke pot from time to time it really
helps me feel better and yeah then I ask
okay how much do you smoke and I'm like
okay like what you know you're gonna
live your life I think you can get the
downsides of it or it's difficult to
have motivation yes so yeah this is the
real problem with with marijuana is that
marijuana is a cannabinoid and a lot of
the receptors around behavior and habit
I have to do with cannabinoids and this
gets like super complicated but
basically when we look at and so I think
the real problem with chronic marijuana
use is that it it destroys your
motivational circuitry and so like if
you have trouble finding a job or you
have trouble studying or things like
that by destroys it's unclear how much
damage it does and what that what that
looks like but it really hampers
people's abilities to have an intention
and follow-through with that intention
for productivity I've seen that
firsthand a lot of my friends and so the
people make counter arguments right
because they say like oh you have like
so I I have someone you know I work with
someone who I'm sure this is not going
to be identifying but I've worked with
people that like major places like
Goldman Sachs and Google who use
marijuana on a daily basis and the
counter-argument is but there are super
successful people who were
these institutions in use marijuana on a
daily basis and I say yes that's correct
that's true at the same time I think is
a clinician and you have to is a
clinician you play the odds right so the
question is it might take a hundred
people and I give them marijuana and I
take a hundred people and I don't give a
marijuana
what are the likelihoods that they'll
end up in certain places I would bet
anything that they'd be more of them
would be less motivated and that's what
we see so there's data to suggest that
right which doesn't mean that an
individual it doesn't like and this is a
big problem is for a long time people
thought that marijuana affected IQ they
like kills brain cells or whatever I've
never seen a situation where I think it
affects like raw IQ I think what effects
is executive function which is like your
frontal lobes which is like being able
to plan and execute complicated tasks
and it affects motivation it engenders
sort of habitual circuitry in your brain
so when we and I know that I said this
is complicated but I'm gonna go into it
because I can't help myself
so when we first start to do an action
and that action feels good that is
mediated by dopamine in something called
the meze olympic circuit so early on
actions like when I wake up and I have
my first cup of coffee ever in life or
let's not use copy let's use alcohol for
example and maybe this is a bad example
because alcohol does things to your
brain so forget about the effects of
alcohol in the brain actually let's use
video games video games so when I first
play a video game and I say like oh this
is lots of fun that's dopamine acting in
my mind in my brain okay so dopamine
reinforces a behavior the experience of
pleasure but what happens when people
become addicted to games as they play
the game for like 10 hours a day and if
you ask them an hour 7 are you actually
having fun they say no like they don't
remember yesterday where they played 14
hours of Diablo as being like one of the
best days of their life but I do
remember like land parties where I still
remember like the land party where I
play left 4 dead and it was like a
last man like I remember that it was so
much fun I was with my friends we were
trying to survive from zombies it was
like a blast
I remember specific gaming experiences
of my life because they release dopamine
over time a games on a couch feels with
friends is so fun and I ever lay maybe I
want to make some sort of my lead artist
Frank is really passionate about this to
make some sort of game that gets people
to do couch co-op's again cool because
yeah I hang out to friends but so so at
the beginning of a behavior it gets
reinforced by dopamine over time that
neurotransmitter changes and it becomes
a cannabinoid so endocannabinoids have
to do with actions related to habit
formation so once something becomes
habitual you don't enjoy it anymore but
you do it anyway right so if we think
about like a behavior everyone thinks
that behaviors are reinforced by
dopamine and pleasure circuitry because
by now gamers are pretty smart and
they're into neuroscience and they're
into drugs of you know so like the study
about the brain and the reading about
the brain everyone knows about dopamine
what people don't know is that if you
think about a bit habit so if you think
about a habit like you don't enjoy the
things that you do habitually and the
reason for this why gaming's become less
fun yes because what happens is it
starts to engender
the the neurotransmitters involves or
cannabinoids which have to do with
habits and no longer have to do enjoy
with enjoyment so I think when you flood
your brain with cannabinoids now this is
my theory we don't really know so we
know that that marijuana reduces
motivation we know that marijuana is a
cannabinoid we know that there are some
circuits of the brain and I'm gonna have
to brush up on this and get back to you
guys because I'm a little bit rusty so
take this take what I say with a grain
of salt and we know that so we know the
neurotransmitters of cannabinoids and we
know that marijuana reduces motivation
so my hypothesis is that since you're
flooding your brain with cannabinoids
you're reinforcing a habit cycle around
whatever the marijuana behavior is which
generally speaking is not productive and
so my sense is that like cannabinoids
are not good because alright it's not
everything everything in medicine and
everything is what in your body has like
a benefit
risk analysis well in this situation
good for you you want people to be
motivated in whatever if someone wanted
to just you know chill yes forever yes
and that would be good for that yes yeah
I I be but I don't think yeah I mean I
don't think that would be good for them
because I think what they would be doing
is chilling and now this gets back to
the question should I use marijuana
before I meditate so let's think about
why someone would want to use marijuana
before they meditate chances are the
reason that marijuana before meditation
makes meditation way more productive
which it does for many of the people
that I've taught is that it quiets your
mind for you right so then what happens
is when you sit down to meditate you
feel like you have a more productive
meditation session because the marijuana
is reducing the activity of your mind
but if we think about it part of the
benefit of meditation is being able to
wrestle with your mind in its current
state so it's basically like what
marijuana does is it's like if you go to
the gym and you're trying to train your
attention and concentration and your
ability to follow through and I talked
about this last Sunday I are not last
Sunday but the last sunday stream I did
was all about tadhana
and tadhana is basically like why I
think people struggle to accomplish
their goals and it's it's not what's hot
ona means is focus and just as an
example so if I wake up on January first
2020 and I say I have a new year's
resolution and I'm gonna lose a hundred
pounds and if you stop and you look at
the mind in that moment their resolve is
a hundred percent it's not like
half-assed it's a hundred percent right
their passion for their goal is like
complete and pure and wonderful what
they're lacking is concentration of the
mind its focus because the next day then
the mind is a hundred percent towards
working out and the next day you're no
longer pointing in that direction you're
pointing in this direction so I think
what people think of is a lack of
willpower is not actually willpower it's
not the ability to overcome willpower is
the ability to like overcome your
internal impulses I think it's actually
a lack of focus so a human that the
average person does not get to choose
what direction their mind points so you
got
about your mind as a flower with you
there and so on January 1st rain the
rain the ability to focus it with
meditation yes so on January 1st my
flashlight is pointing towards weight
loss and on January 2nd I move my
flashlight to pictures of cats on
YouTube and the pattern uh is the
practice of training your mind to put
the flashlight where you want and so if
we think about meditation why do people
want to use marijuana with meditation
it's because it it's less trouble to
focus your flashlight which in turn
makes it easier to get to states of
Samadhi and people think about
productive meditation as states of
Samadhi right which is like the no mind
state or whatever so people think like
marijuana assists their meditation in a
sense it does because it is easier to
facilitate that but I think what you're
doing is you're missing out because
you're going to the gym and instead of
like lifting a 50-pound weight you're
taking all the weight off and you're
making it easy for you to do Carl's got
yeah so I don't think marijuana is is
good to use in terms of an assistive aid
for meditation but I fully understand
why people do it because people don't
understand that you know meditation is a
lot of different stuff and it's not just
getting to the state of no-mind and
blissed-out that that's not all that
meditation is for there are a lot of
other benefits of meditation yeah
another thing marijuana also helps you
fall asleep but I think it's the same
thing it's just you can use the same
analogy it's you're getting worse sleep
when you you sleep after we die don't
think you get to REM as often i watch
the Matthew Walker and some sleep expert
talk about it and it's it when you're
trying to sleep from wheat with weed
kind of feel like it's very difficult
for a talker when trying to sleep with
weed it's also like you're taking all
the weights off at the gym and just
falling asleep but yeah you're not
getting good sleep you like my mind's a
little exhausted yeah - - so I'm gonna
do - yeah questions yeah I have a before
anyone forgets uh-uh
you guys should follow him yeah so he's
he
that healthy gamer GG it's here I
actually think you should rebrand this a
little and have like a picture of
yourself somewhere yeah at least people
have told me that maybe maybe your name
yeah I'll talk about it with you but I
think maybe your name because you
already have healthy gamer GG once and
now it's twice I think maybe your name
would be better like dr. kono ji all
right okay sure
how do you pronounce your last name Cano
Gia Cano Gia
yeah okay and yeah what else so I'll
link it in the chat here and that's and
also follow him on Twitch is here okay
boom boom oh I hurt myself I don't like
that cuz I opened his twitch stream and
then I assume most of you already follow
me yeah so you guys should follow
reckful I mean everyone knows who you
are maybe his fans don't so yeah if you
guys are interested I mean dude half of
my rep not in half 80% of my fans came
from you how do I link to you boomer you
yeah you're trying to forget the link to
me yeah my mods are and figured it out
okay
yeah so you guys should reckful is
awesome so I'm actually a fan of
breakfast I use it so if you wanted to
type in a URL to get to my channel could
you do it yes okay okay just making sure
[Laughter]
TV slash reckful right yeah you got it
yeah but I I know how to find I just I
didn't know what your actual name on on
twitch was right cuz like a lot yeah
like cuz I know your reckful cuz I mean
I remember watching your PvP videos from
a decade ago which by the way or still
taken down from YouTube I know I saw I
looked at your YouTube channel yeah
that's all I told I told so I was on it
wasn't on my channel the video you've
seen I guess reckful 3 is probably the
one you saw is 5 million views yeah
yes it wasn't on my own channel it was
on a small channel with like 20k subs
called complexity gaming it's my sponsor
at the time but they apparently got
dude for some intro they used some
sounds of something on there so and it
was cool dealing with yeah it'll be back
up something can we just do two or three
more questions yes you do it okay so
people are saying that why do yo keys
and India smoke cannabis regularly and
religiously so this is a great question
so not all Yogi's in fact I'd say the a
very small minority of Yogi's use
cannabis and it is used as part of their
spiritual practice so the Yogi's who use
cannabis are part of a kind of tradition
called aghori sadhana Gor means fear ah
Gor means without fear so they do things
they live what they basically do so this
is actually a great question because we
were talking earlier about how that
experience is just an experience and it
isn't like good or bad and good or bad
is what we attribute to it so the goal
of their sadhana is to do practices that
normally engender fear and to do them
with tranquility so the the the Gauri
Baba's who are also apparently really
good at giving boons and cursing people
so they do use marijuana sometimes
they're like Himalayan Yogi's that use
marijuana as well but I think most of
the pictures that people see are often
times of naked Yogi's who are covered in
ash and are smoking pot and are unclean
so these people live in cemeteries they
coat themselves with the ash from
cremated bodies and they also do things
like eat meat drink alcohol and
sometimes practise cannibalism so like
there in the reason that they engage in
all of these things is to like do these
practices with like complete tranquility
of mind and it's kind of like stepping
and auction so stepping in dog [ __ ] is
my like version of a gory sadhana the
other thing about a gory sadhana is it
is recommended by a guru for a
particular period of time so you don't
you're you're not a Nagori you don't
become an Agora sod that and I could be
wrong about this just based on my
exploration let's do it for a small
amount of time yeah not a small amount
I'm usually a decade so they're they're
like lifelong Oh
so they like they'll spend 23 years
doing like regular practice right at the
age of 40 they go and they live in a
cemetery for about a decade and smoke a
bunch of pot and then they come back and
then they give up on again okay yeah
just NBD ten years of eating people so I
I don't think that generally speaking
Yogi's use Janice which is marijuana
regularly okay so if I if I wanted to
watch you step in dog [ __ ] you'd say yes
sure that'll do okay awesome adoption is
that something people are interested in
seeing no yeah where do you where do you
draw the line so you won't eat people I
assume that's correct yeah
what would you do that they do I mean I
drink alcohol and I eat meat but I don't
I don't do it as part of my sadhna I
just do it because I you know enjoy it
from time to time so I'm not interested
in doing it gory sadhana that's not my
path my path I decided I would go for
tea sad that I was something ever
happened to my wife and kids and like
all of my material attachments were gone
I'd probably I'll become a monk again
and their Gauri is not gonna maybe a
part of that but see but yeah can I do
one more question reckful this one's
kind of about you know of course I'm
enjoying this listening do you think
reckful is looking for an easy way out
of his depression if so do you think
that his approach to his depression
ultimately leading to the route if so do
you think that is his approach to his
depression ultimately leading to the
route of his depression I understand
okay
so I think the question is do you think
reckful is looking for an easy way out
of his depression and do you think that
looking for an easy way out of your
depression is the root of why you're
depressed that's what I think the
question is I hope it's a no what do you
think do you think you're looking for an
easy solution to your depression I was
looking for any solution so that part
he's right but it's not the reason I'm
depressed I was depressed to start with
you
so I don't think that you're looking for
an easy solution in fact even though
this solution feels good and remember
boys and girls were not treating or
diagnosing any medical illness I think
that what you're doing would you
describe this as easy no I mean I've
[ __ ] cry my eyes out yeah so I think
like people need to remember that right
like so what reckful is doing requires
just gigantic
balls of steel like it's not easy I have
really big balls yeah are they made of
steel blows the question I hope so I'll
have to pound hate them in a non-medical
way when we meet an instrument we're
just gonna kill him right now but okay
so what here's what I think is going on
with ruffle I don't think that there's
an easy solution to his depression and I
think that what he's doing is hard not
just because he's doing it publicly
doing it publicly sure is hard but I
think the really hard thing and what is
really amazing and what I respect and
why I'm invested in continuing to work
with you is because you're grappling
with the things that are difficult to
grapple with right like you're zoning in
to the raid and you know that there's
like a gigantic raid boss on the other
side and you're zoning in and I don't
think that like yeah I've always wanted
to be challenged in that way yeah and
when I play games I try to do the
hardest thing in the game and I try to
beat it right and I think so I'll try to
do that with my own life absolutely and
so I think that what you're trying to do
is not easy in fact it's hard it's very
hard so grappling with like the dark
parts of ourself grappling with that
inner thing that you know is painful and
difficult because it's safe right like
it's it's safe to actually just continue
to be depressed and you psilocybin and
kind of like hang out and but but
actually like dealing with your feelings
and facing your feelings and talking
about your loss and also like talking
about their they're like undertones of
stuff that we haven't even explicitly
talked about which is like what is the
conversation that you're gonna have with
your family because that's gonna have to
happen at some point yeah my one
disagreement with what you said is it's
safe to continue just being depressed
and yeah
you hadda doing psilocybin to the list
yeah there's this feeling where you can
just stay in bed over and over day after
day and just watch a show and only get
up to pee and just do it or we'll just
watch twit should just do it
mmm a month in a row you know and you
just like can't get out of this you just
do it over and over but I disagree that
it's you can't you can't it's not
possible to do suicide but in that
situation and then not get yourself out
of it
cool from my experience for me it
wouldn't it be possible it's not the
same for everyone
yeah for Greek it wouldn't be possible
either and for any of my other friends
we've tried it it's now like 20 or so
people so 20 years money would not be
possible to just stay in bed and be
depressed okay cool that's Mike yeah so
I don't think it's an easy you need a
clinical trial of a couple thousand
people would be great I mean and I don't
think that his depression is ultimately
due to you know him trying to look for
easy outs for his depression I don't
think so at all I mean I don't even know
that what we're talking about is even
truly been depression because anyway but
I think you've definitely got a some
scar so you have some kind of a lot of
pent up emotions around you know the
loss of your brother and and the zombie
on the inside and stuff like that so
anyway okay so let's meditate and then
we'll wrap up for the day you said I
shouldn't meditate when I'm sick yeah so
you can meditate I'm gonna try to do a
meditation that has no breathing though
so it's not a breath oriented meditation
okay or at least let me think about that
how can I do a non breathing meditation
what am I gonna do okay we're gonna do
that we did this one a couple weeks ago
what we're gonna do this one again it's
gonna be a sound meditation yeah yep
oh the third eye let's do third eye
meditation great that one's even better
we're gonna charge our laser beams okay
so I want you guys yeah let's do third
eye meditation okay so I want everyone
to sit up straight so your back should
be sorry here we go chat we're doing it
you guys do it too okay sit up straight
so I want you to just take a so I'm
gonna ask people to close their eyes and
then I'm gonna ask them to open them
after a few breaths and then I'm gonna
ask you guys to watch what I do
actually let me think about how am I
gonna do this okay I'm gonna teach you
guys the third eye thing first and then
but don't do it now I'll tell you guys
want to do it so I want you to take your
can I get banned for using my middle
finger on Twitch you know not if I do
this right can I do this you got some
supportive finger there that it's giving
so normally I mean you guys at home
don't have to use these two fingers
because this is the middle one is the
operative one so the main thing is that
the middle one is out and what I want
you middle there needs to be up yeah so
there's a spot that's like just right
above your eyebrows and in the middle of
your forehead and I want you to just
hover don't touch no touching hover
hover your finger you're wiped just just
like a centimeter away from your
forehead so just that spot but don't
touch
yeah so you guys just find that spot
okay a little bit hot little bit higher
reckful a little bit higher yeah a
little bit lower me you see from the Sun
yeah I can see from the front okay so I
want you guys to just train yourself to
do that okay but you don't want to touch
now put your hand down so now what we're
gonna do put your hand down now what
we're gonna do I want you guys to just
remember that because I'm gonna ask you
to put your finger over your third eye
in a second we're gonna do some deep
relaxing breathing first and then we're
going to do the the third eye thing and
then so what I mean by that is like so
put your finger over your third eye so
I'll ask you to do that and then we're
going to stop the
so I'm gonna ring the bell to signal the
start of the practice and ring the bell
to signal the end of the practice and at
the end of the practice you should open
your eyes okay so go ahead and close
your eyes right now when the bell rings
close your eyes okay now what I want you
to do is take a deep breath in and out
in
out in out
good now continue breathing slowly and
feel the straightness of your spine and
with each breath in feel your body
expand your shoulders expand your chest
expand and with each exhalation let your
body relax
so I want you to envision your spine
like a pole and your body is like
clothing that's hanging on the pole and
with each relaxation with each
exhalation let your body sort of hang
off of the pole
but the poll should remain straight Paul
acknowledges
you
and I want you to take a moment to hear
the sound of your breath
you
and now place your finger on your third
eye
remember not to touch keep it like a
centimeter or two away ideally not
touching hair or any skin
and focus on the sensation of your
forehead
you
focus on that point on your forehead
try your best not to think about what
you're doing or what's happening you
just focus on the sensation keep your
arm there
you
we'll practice for a bit
about two minutes
you
direct all of your attention towards
that point
you
and now let your hand come down and
relax and continue to focus your
attention on your third eye direct your
concentration into it you may notice
some residual feeling just feel what it
is
[Music]
I'm calm doesn't have to be breath boys
and girls so not have to be breath was
that like for everyone they loved it
yeah what a prising huh surprising I
what suit I said relax surprising
awesome
wow I'm know I'm reading what they're
saying I don't know what was surprising
for him yeah relax ask people what's
gonna awesome yeah what was surprising
for you guys the feeling generated it
was surprising absolutely perfect for a
Friday after work feel renewed actually
calmed me down I leveled up that weird
headache for a moment okay so not all
techniques work for all people some
people in my chat so one person
described it when I you know when I did
this when the stream was relatively
small and I could actually read the
messages one person described it as
charging a laser beam does that make
sense to anyone so people are just
saying weirdest feeling I've ever had
some feeling some people are saying yes
some people are saying no some people
are saying kinda
and so some people experience something
like a tingling sensation which is fine
and if you don't feel any of those
things that's fine too don't worry about
it there are a hundred and twelve
different techniques of meditation one
of which each supposedly is going to be
like natural and give people sort of an
easy access to Samadhi which is a
spiritual experience and so if this is
not the one that works for you that's
okay it doesn't mean that you're doing
anything wrong it's just different
things work for different people and so
if you did experience a sensation I
would say that this is a good technique
to practice so do it at home do it for a
few minutes at a time
you okay reckful yeah okay
no there's um there's a video 112 is a
popular number in gaming space okay yeah
there's a video of ryan lockwood is a
guy speedrunning Goldeneye 64 for n64
and his best time before this began I
think was 114 and he he gets really
excited that he skipped 113 and he got a
112 and he's like screams I'm a legend
and stuff like that it's good a video
you feel their emotion cool you should
watch it on your own time I will alright
let's watch it boys okay well I was
actually it's such a weird a transition
from being this calm to watch that video
you should watch a different timing okay
sure so who should I rate reckful are
you streaming or you